WindowsForms/ComboBox-DropDown/Themes-And-Styles.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Themes-And-Styles | WindowsForms | Syncfusion
description: themes and styles
platform: WindowsForms
control: ComboDropDown
documentation: ug
---

# Themes And Styles

The below given properties enhances the look and feel of the ComboDropDown.


<table>
<tr>
<th>
ComboDropDown Properties</th><th>
Description</th></tr>
<tr>
<td>
IgnoreThemeBackground</td><td>
Specifies whether the control will ignore the theme's background color and draw the back color instead.</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>
Style</td><td>
Specifies advanced appearance and behavior of the ComboDropDown. The default value is 'Default'. The options are,<ul><li>{{ 'Office2016Colorful,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2016White,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2016DarkGray,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2016Black,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Metro,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2010,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2007.' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'OfficeXP,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2003,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'VS2005 and' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Default,' | markdownify }}</li></ul></td></tr>
</table>

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}

this.comboDropDown1.IgnoreThemeBackground = true;

//To set Office2016Colorful Visual Style
this.comboDropDown1.Style = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.VisualStyle.Office2016Colorful;

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}

Me.comboDropDown1.IgnoreThemeBackground = True

'To set Office2016Colorful Visual Style
Me.comboDropDown1.Style = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.VisualStyle.Office2016Colorful

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

![](Overview_images/Overview_img288.jpeg) 



## Office Color Schemes

The ComboDropDown control supports blue, silver and black office colors scheme. It is set using Office2007ColorTheme property. Style property should be set to Office2007.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}

//To set Blue Color scheme
this.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Blue;

//To set Silver Color scheme
this.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Silver;

//To set Black Color scheme
this.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Black;                

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}

'To set Blue Color scheme
Me.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Blue

'To set Silver Color scheme
Me.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Silver

'To set Black Color scheme
Me.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Black

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

![](Overview_images/Overview_img289.jpeg) 



## Custom Colors

We can also apply custom colors to the ComboDropDown control by setting Office2007ColorTheme to "Managed" and specifying the custom color through the ApplyManagedColors method as follows.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}

this.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Managed;
Office2007Colors.ApplyManagedColors(this, Color.Orchid);

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}

Me.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Managed;
Office2007Colors.ApplyManagedColors(Me, Color.Orchid)

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

![](Overview_images/Overview_img290.jpeg)

Commit message:

Fix meta elements windows forms

WindowsForms/ComboBox-DropDown/Themes-And-Styles.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Themes-And-Styles | WindowsForms | Syncfusion
description: themes and styles
platform: WindowsForms
control: ComboDropDown
documentation: ug
---

# Themes and Styles in Windows Forms ComboBox DropDown (ComboDropDown)

The below given properties enhances the look and feel of the ComboDropDown.


<table>
<tr>
<th>
ComboDropDown Properties</th><th>
Description</th></tr>
<tr>
<td>
IgnoreThemeBackground</td><td>
Specifies whether the control will ignore the theme's background color and draw the back color instead.</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>
Style</td><td>
Specifies advanced appearance and behavior of the ComboDropDown. The default value is 'Default'. The options are,<ul><li>{{ 'Office2016Colorful,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2016White,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2016DarkGray,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2016Black,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Metro,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2010,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2007.' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'OfficeXP,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Office2003,' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'VS2005 and' | markdownify }}</li><li>{{ 'Default,' | markdownify }}</li></ul></td></tr>
</table>

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}

this.comboDropDown1.IgnoreThemeBackground = true;

//To set Office2016Colorful Visual Style
this.comboDropDown1.Style = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.VisualStyle.Office2016Colorful;

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}

Me.comboDropDown1.IgnoreThemeBackground = True

'To set Office2016Colorful Visual Style
Me.comboDropDown1.Style = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.VisualStyle.Office2016Colorful

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

![](Overview_images/Overview_img288.jpeg) 



## Office Color Schemes

The ComboDropDown control supports blue, silver and black office colors scheme. It is set using Office2007ColorTheme property. Style property should be set to Office2007.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}

//To set Blue Color scheme
this.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Blue;

//To set Silver Color scheme
this.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Silver;

//To set Black Color scheme
this.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Black;                

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}

'To set Blue Color scheme
Me.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Blue

'To set Silver Color scheme
Me.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Silver

'To set Black Color scheme
Me.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Black

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

![](Overview_images/Overview_img289.jpeg) 



## Custom Colors

We can also apply custom colors to the ComboDropDown control by setting Office2007ColorTheme to "Managed" and specifying the custom color through the ApplyManagedColors method as follows.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}

this.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Managed;
Office2007Colors.ApplyManagedColors(this, Color.Orchid);

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight vb %}

Me.comboDropDown1.Office2007ColorTheme = Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Office2007Theme.Managed;
Office2007Colors.ApplyManagedColors(Me, Color.Orchid)

{% endhighlight %}
{% endtabs %}

![](Overview_images/Overview_img290.jpeg)
