WindowsForms/Wizard-Control/Getting-Started.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Getting Started with Windows Forms Wizard | Syncfusion
description: Learn here about getting started with Syncfusion Windows Forms Wizard Control, its elements and more details.
platform: WindowsForms
control: Wizard Package 
documentation: ug
---

# Getting Started with Windows Forms Wizard Control

This section describes how to add [WizardControl](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html) in a Windows Forms application and overview of its basic functionalities.

## Assembly deployment

Refer [control dependencies](https://help.syncfusion.com/windowsforms/control-dependencies#wizardcontrol) section to get the list of assemblies or NuGet package needs to be added as reference to use the control in any application.
 
Please find more details regarding how to install the nuget packages in windows form application in the below link:
 
[How to install nuget packages](https://help.syncfusion.com/windowsforms/installation/install-nuget-packages)


## Creating simple application with WizardControl

You can create the Windows Forms application with WizardControl control as follows:

1. [Creating project](#creating-the-project)
2. [Adding control via designer](#adding-control-via-designer)
3. [Adding control manually using code](#adding-control-manually-in-code)
4. [Configure WizardPages](#configure-wizardpages)

### Creating the project

Create a new Windows Forms project in the Visual Studio to display the [WizardControl](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html) with functionalities.

## Adding control via designer

The [WizardControl](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html) control can be added to the application by dragging it from the toolbox and dropping it in a designer view. The following required assembly references will be added automatically:

* Syncfusion.Grid.Base.dll
* Syncfusion.Grid.Windows.dll
* Syncfusion.Shared.Base.dll
* Syncfusion.Shared.Windows.dll
* Syncfusion.Tools.Base.dll
* Syncfusion.Tools.Windows.dll

![Search wizard control in toolbox](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img1.png)

![Drag and drop the wizard control to form](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img2.png)

## Adding control manually in code

To add control manually in C#, follow the given steps:

**Step 1** : Add the following required assembly references to the project:

        * Syncfusion.Grid.Base.dll
        * Syncfusion.Grid.Windows.dll
        * Syncfusion.Shared.Base.dll
        * Syncfusion.Shared.Windows.dll
        * Syncfusion.Tools.Base.dll
        * Syncfusion.Tools.Windows.dll

**Step 2** : Include the namespaces **Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools**.

{% capture codesnippet1 %}
{% tabs %}

{% highlight C# %}

using Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools;

{% endhighlight  %}

{% highlight VB %}

Imports Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools

{% endhighlight  %}

{% endtabs %} 
{% endcapture %}
{{ codesnippet1 | OrderList_Indent_Level_1 }}

**Step 3** : Create [WizardControl](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html) control instance and add it to the form.

{% capture codesnippet2 %}
{% tabs %}

{% highlight C# %}

WizardControl wizardControl1 = new WizardControl();

this.wizardControl1.Style = Theme.Metro;

this.Controls.Add(wizardControl1);

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight VB %}

Dim wizardControl1 As WizardControl = New WizardControl()

Me.wizardControl1.Style = Theme.Metro

Me.Controls.Add(wizardControl1)

{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ codesnippet2 | OrderList_Indent_Level_1 }}

**Add wizard page into WizardControl**

Create an instance of [WizardContainer](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardContainer.html), add it to WizardControl and set it as [WizardPageContainer](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControl_WizardPageContainer) of WizardControl. WizardControlPages can be added to using [WizardPages](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControl_WizardPages) collection property.

{% tabs %}

{% highlight C# %}

// Create instance of page elements

WizardControlPage wizardControlPage1 = new WizardControlPage();
WizardControlPage wizardControlPage2 = new WizardControlPage();
WizardControlPage wizardControlPage3 = new WizardControlPage();

// configure pages
this.wizardControlPage1.Title = "Welcome";
this.wizardControlPage1.Description = "First page of the WizardControl";
this.wizardControlPage1.BackVisible = false;

this.wizardControlPage2.Title = "Processing";
this.wizardControlPage2.Description = "Second page of the WizardControl";

this.wizardControlPage3.Title = "Finished";
this.wizardControlPage3.Description = "Final page of the WizardControl";
this.wizardControlPage3.NextVisible = false;
this.wizardControlPage3.CancelVisible = false;
this.wizardControlPage3.FinishVisible = true;

this.pictureBox1.Image = ((System.Drawing.Image)(resources.GetObject("pictureBox1.Image")));
this.wizardControl1.Banner = this.pictureBox1;

// Add pages into wizard Control
 this.wizardControl1.WizardPages = new Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage[] {
        this.wizardControlPage1,
        this.wizardControlPage2,
        this.wizardControlPage3};


{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight VB %}

' Create instance of page elements

Dim wizardControlPage1 As New WizardControlPage()
Dim wizardControlPage2 As New WizardControlPage()
Dim wizardControlPage3 As New WizardControlPage()

' configure pages
Me.wizardControlPage1.Title = "Welcome"
Me.wizardControlPage1.Description = "First page of the WizardControl"
Me.wizardControlPage1.BackVisible = False

Me.wizardControlPage2.Title = "Processing"
Me.wizardControlPage2.Description = "Second page of the WizardControl"

Me.wizardControlPage3.Title = "Finish"
Me.wizardControlPage3.Description = "Final page of the WizardControl"
Me.wizardControlPage3.NextVisible = False
Me.wizardControlPage3.CancelVisible = False
Me.wizardControlPage3.FinishVisible = True

Me.pictureBox1.Image = (CType(resources.GetObject("pictureBox1.Image"), System.Drawing.Image))
Me.wizardControl1.Banner = Me.pictureBox1

' Add pages into wizard Control
 Me.wizardControl1.WizardPages = New Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage() { Me.wizardControlPage1, Me.wizardControlPage2, Me.wizardControlPage3}

{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}

![wizard first page](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img5.png)

![wizard second page](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img6.png)

![wizard third page](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img7.png)

**Configure BannerPanel** 

Controls can be added to header of the WizardControl using [BannerPanel](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControl_BannerPanel) property where panel containing the desired controls is added. 


{% tabs %}

{% highlight C# %}

// Create instance of controls to be added

GradientPanel gradientPanel1 = new GradientPanel();
Label label1 = new Label();
Label label2 = new Label();

this.label1.Text = "Page Title";
this.label2.Text = "This is the description of the Wizard Page";

this.gradientPanel1.Controls.Add(this.label1);
this.gradientPanel1.Controls.Add(this.label2);

// Adding it to WizardControl

this.wizardControl1.Controls.Add(this.gradientPanel1);

this.wizardControl1.Title = this.label1;
this.wizardControl1.Description = this.label2;
this.wizardControl1.BannerPanel = this.gradientPanel1;


{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight VB %}

'' Create instance of controls to be added

Dim gradientPanel1 As New GradientPanel()
Dim label1 As New Label()
Dim label2 As New Label()

Me.label1.Text = "Page Title"
Me.label2.Text = "This is the description of the Wizard Page"

Me.gradientPanel1.Controls.Add(Me.label1)
Me.gradientPanel1.Controls.Add(Me.label2)
 
'' Adding it to WizardControl 

Me.wizardControl1.Controls.Add(Me.gradientPanel1)

Me.wizardControl1.Title = Me.label1
Me.wizardControl1.Description = Me.label2
Me.wizardControl1.BannerPanel = Me.gradientPanel1

{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}

![wizard panel](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img4.png)

## Change navigation buttons visibility

You can change the visibility of the Back, Cancel, Next, Help and Finish navigation buttons in the wizard control and wizard page. This is done by using the [BackVisible](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControlPage_BackVisible), [CancelVisible](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControlPage_CancelVisible), [NextVisible](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControlPage_NextVisible), [HelpVisible](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControlPage_HelpVisible) and [FinishVisible](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControlPage_FinishVisible) properties respectively.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight C# %}
this.wizardControlPage1.BackVisible = true;

this.wizardControlPage1.NextVisible = true;

this.wizardControlPage1.CancelVisible = true;

this.wizardControlPage1.HelpVisible = true;

this.wizardControlPage1.FinishVisible =false;
{% endhighlight  %}
{% highlight VB %}
Me.wizardControlPage1.BackVisible = True

Me.wizardControlPage1.NextVisible = true

Me.wizardControlPage1.CancelVisible = True

Me.wizardControlPage1.HelpVisible = true

Me.wizardControlPage1.FinishVisible = False
{% endhighlight  %}
{% endtabs %} 

![navigation button visibility](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img8.png)

Commit message:

WF-993675_Prepared documentation for designer limitations in Tools-Windows controls in NET Core

WindowsForms/Wizard-Control/Getting-Started.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Getting Started with Windows Forms Wizard | Syncfusion
description: Learn here about getting started with Syncfusion Windows Forms Wizard Control, its elements and more details.
platform: WindowsForms
control: Wizard Package 
documentation: ug
---

# Getting Started with Windows Forms Wizard Control

This section describes how to add [WizardControl](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html) in a Windows Forms application and overview of its basic functionalities.

## Assembly deployment

Refer [control dependencies](https://help.syncfusion.com/windowsforms/control-dependencies#wizardcontrol) section to get the list of assemblies or NuGet package needs to be added as reference to use the control in any application.
 
Please find more details regarding how to install the nuget packages in windows form application in the below link:
 
[How to install nuget packages](https://help.syncfusion.com/windowsforms/installation/install-nuget-packages)


## Creating simple application with WizardControl

You can create the Windows Forms application with WizardControl control as follows:

1. [Creating project](#creating-the-project)
2. [Adding control via designer](#adding-control-via-designer)
3. [Adding control manually using code](#adding-control-manually-in-code)
4. [Configure WizardPages](#configure-wizardpages)

### Creating the project

Create a new Windows Forms project in the Visual Studio to display the [WizardControl](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html) with functionalities.

## Adding control via designer

The [WizardControl](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html) control can be added to the application by dragging it from the toolbox and dropping it in a designer view. The following required assembly references will be added automatically:

* Syncfusion.Grid.Base.dll
* Syncfusion.Grid.Windows.dll
* Syncfusion.Shared.Base.dll
* Syncfusion.Shared.Windows.dll
* Syncfusion.Tools.Base.dll
* Syncfusion.Tools.Windows.dll

![Search wizard control in toolbox](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img1.png)

![Drag and drop the wizard control to form](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img2.png)

N> In .NET Core, the Wizard control’s Collection Editor displays the title “ControlProxy`1 CollectionEditor” instead of “WizardControlPage CollectionEditor.” This is a known issue that does not affect functionality; it has been logged, and we will provide updates as they become available. 
GitHub - [Issue #14049](https://github.com/dotnet/winforms/issues/14049)

## Adding control manually in code

To add control manually in C#, follow the given steps:

**Step 1** : Add the following required assembly references to the project:

        * Syncfusion.Grid.Base.dll
        * Syncfusion.Grid.Windows.dll
        * Syncfusion.Shared.Base.dll
        * Syncfusion.Shared.Windows.dll
        * Syncfusion.Tools.Base.dll
        * Syncfusion.Tools.Windows.dll

**Step 2** : Include the namespaces **Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools**.

{% capture codesnippet1 %}
{% tabs %}

{% highlight C# %}

using Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools;

{% endhighlight  %}

{% highlight VB %}

Imports Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools

{% endhighlight  %}

{% endtabs %} 
{% endcapture %}
{{ codesnippet1 | OrderList_Indent_Level_1 }}

**Step 3** : Create [WizardControl](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html) control instance and add it to the form.

{% capture codesnippet2 %}
{% tabs %}

{% highlight C# %}

WizardControl wizardControl1 = new WizardControl();

this.wizardControl1.Style = Theme.Metro;

this.Controls.Add(wizardControl1);

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight VB %}

Dim wizardControl1 As WizardControl = New WizardControl()

Me.wizardControl1.Style = Theme.Metro

Me.Controls.Add(wizardControl1)

{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ codesnippet2 | OrderList_Indent_Level_1 }}

**Add wizard page into WizardControl**

Create an instance of [WizardContainer](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardContainer.html), add it to WizardControl and set it as [WizardPageContainer](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControl_WizardPageContainer) of WizardControl. WizardControlPages can be added to using [WizardPages](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControl_WizardPages) collection property.

{% tabs %}

{% highlight C# %}

// Create instance of page elements

WizardControlPage wizardControlPage1 = new WizardControlPage();
WizardControlPage wizardControlPage2 = new WizardControlPage();
WizardControlPage wizardControlPage3 = new WizardControlPage();

// configure pages
this.wizardControlPage1.Title = "Welcome";
this.wizardControlPage1.Description = "First page of the WizardControl";
this.wizardControlPage1.BackVisible = false;

this.wizardControlPage2.Title = "Processing";
this.wizardControlPage2.Description = "Second page of the WizardControl";

this.wizardControlPage3.Title = "Finished";
this.wizardControlPage3.Description = "Final page of the WizardControl";
this.wizardControlPage3.NextVisible = false;
this.wizardControlPage3.CancelVisible = false;
this.wizardControlPage3.FinishVisible = true;

this.pictureBox1.Image = ((System.Drawing.Image)(resources.GetObject("pictureBox1.Image")));
this.wizardControl1.Banner = this.pictureBox1;

// Add pages into wizard Control
 this.wizardControl1.WizardPages = new Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage[] {
        this.wizardControlPage1,
        this.wizardControlPage2,
        this.wizardControlPage3};


{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight VB %}

' Create instance of page elements

Dim wizardControlPage1 As New WizardControlPage()
Dim wizardControlPage2 As New WizardControlPage()
Dim wizardControlPage3 As New WizardControlPage()

' configure pages
Me.wizardControlPage1.Title = "Welcome"
Me.wizardControlPage1.Description = "First page of the WizardControl"
Me.wizardControlPage1.BackVisible = False

Me.wizardControlPage2.Title = "Processing"
Me.wizardControlPage2.Description = "Second page of the WizardControl"

Me.wizardControlPage3.Title = "Finish"
Me.wizardControlPage3.Description = "Final page of the WizardControl"
Me.wizardControlPage3.NextVisible = False
Me.wizardControlPage3.CancelVisible = False
Me.wizardControlPage3.FinishVisible = True

Me.pictureBox1.Image = (CType(resources.GetObject("pictureBox1.Image"), System.Drawing.Image))
Me.wizardControl1.Banner = Me.pictureBox1

' Add pages into wizard Control
 Me.wizardControl1.WizardPages = New Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage() { Me.wizardControlPage1, Me.wizardControlPage2, Me.wizardControlPage3}

{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}

![wizard first page](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img5.png)

![wizard second page](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img6.png)

![wizard third page](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img7.png)

**Configure BannerPanel** 

Controls can be added to header of the WizardControl using [BannerPanel](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControl.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControl_BannerPanel) property where panel containing the desired controls is added. 


{% tabs %}

{% highlight C# %}

// Create instance of controls to be added

GradientPanel gradientPanel1 = new GradientPanel();
Label label1 = new Label();
Label label2 = new Label();

this.label1.Text = "Page Title";
this.label2.Text = "This is the description of the Wizard Page";

this.gradientPanel1.Controls.Add(this.label1);
this.gradientPanel1.Controls.Add(this.label2);

// Adding it to WizardControl

this.wizardControl1.Controls.Add(this.gradientPanel1);

this.wizardControl1.Title = this.label1;
this.wizardControl1.Description = this.label2;
this.wizardControl1.BannerPanel = this.gradientPanel1;


{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight VB %}

'' Create instance of controls to be added

Dim gradientPanel1 As New GradientPanel()
Dim label1 As New Label()
Dim label2 As New Label()

Me.label1.Text = "Page Title"
Me.label2.Text = "This is the description of the Wizard Page"

Me.gradientPanel1.Controls.Add(Me.label1)
Me.gradientPanel1.Controls.Add(Me.label2)
 
'' Adding it to WizardControl 

Me.wizardControl1.Controls.Add(Me.gradientPanel1)

Me.wizardControl1.Title = Me.label1
Me.wizardControl1.Description = Me.label2
Me.wizardControl1.BannerPanel = Me.gradientPanel1

{% endhighlight %}

{% endtabs %}

![wizard panel](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img4.png)

## Change navigation buttons visibility

You can change the visibility of the Back, Cancel, Next, Help and Finish navigation buttons in the wizard control and wizard page. This is done by using the [BackVisible](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControlPage_BackVisible), [CancelVisible](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControlPage_CancelVisible), [NextVisible](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControlPage_NextVisible), [HelpVisible](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControlPage_HelpVisible) and [FinishVisible](https://help.syncfusion.com/cr/windowsforms/Syncfusion.Windows.Forms.Tools.WizardControlPage.html#Syncfusion_Windows_Forms_Tools_WizardControlPage_FinishVisible) properties respectively.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight C# %}
this.wizardControlPage1.BackVisible = true;

this.wizardControlPage1.NextVisible = true;

this.wizardControlPage1.CancelVisible = true;

this.wizardControlPage1.HelpVisible = true;

this.wizardControlPage1.FinishVisible =false;
{% endhighlight  %}
{% highlight VB %}
Me.wizardControlPage1.BackVisible = True

Me.wizardControlPage1.NextVisible = true

Me.wizardControlPage1.CancelVisible = True

Me.wizardControlPage1.HelpVisible = true

Me.wizardControlPage1.FinishVisible = False
{% endhighlight  %}
{% endtabs %} 

![navigation button visibility](Getting-Started_images/GettingStarted-img8.png)
