---
layout: post
title: Features
description: features
platform: WindowsForms
control: Layout Managers Package
documentation: ug
---
# Features

This section lists the features that are provided by the Layout Managers of the Layout Manager Package.

## Features

* BorderLayout

Child controls can be positioned along the borders and at the center using this Layout Manager.

* CardLayout

In the CardLayout Manager, Child controls are treated as cards inside the Container control. These cards can be viewed only one at a time.

The CardLayout Manager allows displaying images as cards and it provides options for the user to browse through the images.

* FlowLayout

In this Layout Manager, the Child controls are added either vertically or horizontally depending on the mode specified by theLayoutMode property. The direction of display can be reversed to suit the needs of the user.

The Alignment of the Child controls can be set to Near, Far, Center and ChildConstraints. When the Alignment property is set to 'ChildConstraints', the alignment of each individual Child control can be changed using the options provided by the extended Constraints on flowLayout property found in the properties grid of the Child controls.

The Child controls can also be rearranged at design time and run time.

* GridLayout

This Layout Manager allows arranging the Child controls as in a grid containing rows and columns. The number of rows and columns can be specified by the user.

Child controls can also be prevented from participating in the layout generated by the GridLayout using the ParticipateInLayout property.

The Child controls can be rearranged only at design time, unlike the FlowLayout which allows rearranging of Child controls at run time also.

* GridBagLayout

This functions similar to the GridLayout, but unlike the GridLayout, this Layout Manager allows specifying the size of the rows or columns in the grid and the Child controls are allowed to span more than one cell.

The appearance, alignment, position and space settings of the Child controls can be changed using the extended Constraints on gridBagLayout property of the Child controls.

The Child controls can be rearranged by this Layout Manager also, but it can be done only at design time as in the GridLayout Manager.

## General Features

* Ability to create elegant user interfaces as quickly as possible.
* Reduces the time spent on creating, customizing and supporting the layout of applications that contain a lot of controls.
* Maintains an effective and consistent layout.
* Provides an automatic control alignment feature which ensures that controls don't overlap one another even when the font settings are changed or the form is resized.
* Provides advanced capabilities for creating, customizing and supporting the layout of controls within the Container control.

## Key Features

* Consistent Layout Management

Layout Manager automatically maintains a consistent layout of controls within a form. On resizing the form or changing the font settings of the controls, the layout will never break and the controls will never overlap.

* On-the-Fly Layout Customization

Layout managers create attractive layouts within a few seconds. Controls can be added to the layout in a really intuitive manner by dragging and dropping them onto the layout.

* Automatic Alignment

Layout Managers automatically align the controls horizontally / vertically, next to each other, with multiple controls within a single row, and multiple controls along the edge of another control.

* Size Constraints

It allows you to specify a control's width / height that can be varied only within a particular range, allow free sizing for the control vertically and / or horizontally or lock it to the current size. By default, specific size constraints are applied to all the Child controls within the Parent control.

* Customizing a Layout in Code

Layout Managers allow the user to customize the layout of the controls using code snippets.

* Design Time Arrangement using Verbs

We can arrange the layout of Child controls using the Bring to front and Send to back design time verbs.

* Focus Management

An end-user can move the focus between the Child controls using the TAB key. This feature is enabled by default.

* AutoLabel

Is a label-derived control that lets you pair a label with any other control. Once paired, the AutoLabel will be automatically repositioned as the labeled control's position changes.

* Layout Support for Third Party Controls

Layout Managers allow the user to layout the third party controls over the Parent controls without registering the respective controls.

* Spacing and Margins

The Layout Managers provide horizontal and vertical spacing between the layout border and components and also provide the right margin and left margin between the Client rectangle and layout rectangle.

* Layout support for Non-Control Based Components

Layout Managers allow the user to layout the non-control based components when they implement a simple interface.

* Event Handling

 Layout Managers support event handling.

Controls laid out by Flow layout, Grid Layout can now be rearranged simply by dragging the controls in the designer. 

See Also

Concepts and Features