WindowsForms/Licensing/how-to-generate.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Overview of Syncfusion license generation - Syncfusion
description: Learn here about how to generate Syncfusion Windows Forms license key for syncfusion Windows Forms application for license validation.
platform: WindowsForms
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---


# Generate Syncfusion Windows Forms License key

License keys for Windows Forms can be generated from the [License & Downloads](https://syncfusion.com/account/downloads) or [Trail & Downloads](https://www.syncfusion.com/account/manage-trials/downloads) section from your Syncfusion account. 

![Get License Key](licensing-images/generate-license.png)

I> * Syncfusion license keys are **version and platform specific**, refer to the [KB](https://www.syncfusion.com/kb/8976/how-to-generate-license-key-for-licensed-products) to generate the license key for the required version and platform.
* Refer this [KB](https://www.syncfusion.com/kb/8951/which-version-syncfusion-license-key-should-i-use-in-my-application) to know about which version of the Syncfusion license key should be used in the application.


## See Also

* [How to Register Syncfusion License Key in WindowsForms Application?](https://github.com/syncfusion-content/windowsforms-docs/blob/master/WindowsForms/Licensing/how-to-register-in-an-application.md)

Commit message:

IN-18693 - Licensing error content changes and Claim license content changes

WindowsForms/Licensing/how-to-generate.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Overview of Syncfusion license generation - Syncfusion
description: Learn here about how to generate Syncfusion Windows Forms license key for syncfusion Windows Forms application for license validation.
platform: WindowsForms
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---


# Generate Syncfusion Windows Forms License key

License keys for Windows Forms can be generated from the [License & Downloads](https://syncfusion.com/account/downloads) or [Trail & Downloads](https://www.syncfusion.com/account/manage-trials/downloads) section from your Syncfusion account. 

![Get License Key](licensing-images/generate-license.png)

I> * Syncfusion license keys are **version and platform specific**, refer to the [KB](https://www.syncfusion.com/kb/8976/how-to-generate-license-key-for-licensed-products) to generate the license key for the required version and platform.
* Refer this [KB](https://www.syncfusion.com/kb/8951/which-version-syncfusion-license-key-should-i-use-in-my-application) to know about which version of the Syncfusion license key should be used in the application.

## Claim License key

Syncfusion License keys can also be generated from the **"Claim License Key"** page based on the trial or valid license associated with your Syncfusion account.

You can get the license key, based on license availability in your Syncfusion account.

### Active License

If you have a Syncfusion account associated with valid license, license key will be generated from claim license key page.

![Active License](licensing-images/active-license.png)

### Active Trial

If you have a Syncfusion account associated with valid trial license, license key will be generated from claim license key page with expiry date.

![Active Trial](licensing-images/active-trial.png)

### Expired License

If you have a Syncfusion account with an expired license, your license subscription must be renewed in order to obtain a valid license key for the latest Essential Studio version. Meanwhile, a temporary license key with a 5-day validity period will be generated.

![Expired License](licensing-images/expired-license.png)

### No Trial or No License or Expired trial

If the Syncfusion account is not associated with a trial, license, or expired trial, you can try to claim either a trial or a valid license from claim license page.

![No Trial or No License](licensing-images/no-active-trial-or-license.png)

## See Also

* [How to Register Syncfusion License Key in Windows Forms Application?](https://github.com/syncfusion-content/windowsforms-docs/blob/master/WindowsForms/Licensing/how-to-register-in-an-application.md)
