WindowsForms/Grid-Control/How-To/Printing/How-to-hide-the-numbered-row-and-column-headers-while-printing-or-previewing-print-in-GridControl.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Printing in GridControl
description: how to hide the numbered row and column headers while printing or previewing print in gridcontrol
platform: windowsforms
control: Grid
documentation: ug
---

# How to hide the numbered row and column headers while printing or previewing print in GridControl

You have to set PrintRowHeader and PrintColHeader properties to _False_ to hide row and column headers while printing or previewing print in GridControl.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}

private void button2_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
this.gridControl1.Model.Properties.PrintRowHeader = false;
this.gridControl1.Model.Properties.PrintColHeader = false;

if (this.gridControl1 != null)
{
    try
    {
        GridPrintDocument pd = new GridPrintDocument(this.gridControl1, true);
        PrintDialog dlg = new PrintDialog();
        dlg.Document = pd;
        if (dlg.ShowDialog() == DialogResult.OK)
        pd.Print();
    }
    catch (Exception ex)
    {
        MessageBox.Show("An error occurred attempting to print the grid - " + ex.Message);
    }
}
}

{% endhighlight  %}

{% highlight vb %}

Private Sub button2_Click(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As EventArgs) Handles button2.Click
Me.gridControl1.Model.Properties.PrintRowHeader = False
Me.gridControl1.Model.Properties.PrintColHeader = False
If Me.gridControl1 IsNot Nothing Then
Try
Dim pd As GridPrintDocument = New GridPrintDocument(Me.gridControl1, True)
Dim dlg As PrintDialog = New PrintDialog()
dlg.Document = pd
If dlg.ShowDialog() = System.Windows.Forms.DialogResult.OK Then
pd.Print()
End If
Catch ex As Exception
MessageBox.Show("An error occurred attempting to print the grid - " & ex.Message)
End Try
End If
End Sub

{% endhighlight  %}
{% endtabs %}

Commit message:

SEO-1534_Windows_Forms_CI_Frontmatter_validation

WindowsForms/Grid-Control/How-To/Printing/How-to-hide-the-numbered-row-and-column-headers-while-printing-or-previewing-print-in-GridControl.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Hide the numbered Row and Column headers in GridControl | Syncfusion
description: How to hide the numbered row and column headers while printing or previewing print in Syncfusion Grid Control, and more.
platform: windowsforms
control: Grid
documentation: ug
---

# Hide the numbered Row and Column headers in Windows Forms GridControl

This page explains How to hide the numbered row and column headers while printing or previewing print in GridControl and more details.

## How to hide the numbered row and column headers while printing or previewing print in GridControl

You have to set PrintRowHeader and PrintColHeader properties to _False_ to hide row and column headers while printing or previewing print in GridControl.

{% tabs %}
{% highlight c# %}

private void button2_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
this.gridControl1.Model.Properties.PrintRowHeader = false;
this.gridControl1.Model.Properties.PrintColHeader = false;

if (this.gridControl1 != null)
{
    try
    {
        GridPrintDocument pd = new GridPrintDocument(this.gridControl1, true);
        PrintDialog dlg = new PrintDialog();
        dlg.Document = pd;
        if (dlg.ShowDialog() == DialogResult.OK)
        pd.Print();
    }
    catch (Exception ex)
    {
        MessageBox.Show("An error occurred attempting to print the grid - " + ex.Message);
    }
}
}

{% endhighlight  %}

{% highlight vb %}

Private Sub button2_Click(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As EventArgs) Handles button2.Click
Me.gridControl1.Model.Properties.PrintRowHeader = False
Me.gridControl1.Model.Properties.PrintColHeader = False
If Me.gridControl1 IsNot Nothing Then
Try
Dim pd As GridPrintDocument = New GridPrintDocument(Me.gridControl1, True)
Dim dlg As PrintDialog = New PrintDialog()
dlg.Document = pd
If dlg.ShowDialog() = System.Windows.Forms.DialogResult.OK Then
pd.Print()
End If
Catch ex As Exception
MessageBox.Show("An error occurred attempting to print the grid - " & ex.Message)
End Try
End If
End Sub

{% endhighlight  %}
{% endtabs %}
