WindowsForms/Upgrade/Upgrade.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Major Version to Service Pack Version| Windows Forms | Syncfusion
description: this section provides the information about upgrading the Windows Forms projects from major version to service pack version
platform: WindowsForms
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---

# Upgrading Syncfusion Windows Forms

Syncfusion releases new volumes once every three months, with exciting new features. There will be one Service Pack release for these volume releases. Service Pack releases are provided to address major bug fixes in the volume releases.

You can upgrade to our latest version from any installed Syncfusion version.

See our "[**Upgrade Guide**](https://help.syncfusion.com/upgrade-guide/winforms-ui-controls)" for Windows Forms to learn more about the “Breaking Changes, Bug Fixes, Features and Knows Issues” between your current version and the latest version you are trying to upgrade.


## Upgrading to the latest version

The most recent version of Syncfusion Windows Forms can be downloaded and installed by clicking on the "Latest Version: {Version}" link at the top of the Syncfusion Windows Forms Control Panel.

![Control Panel](images/upgrade-control-panel.png)

You can also upgrade to the latest version just by downloading and installing the products you require from [this](https://www.syncfusion.com/downloads/latest-version) link. The existing installed versions are not required to be uninstalled. 


It is not required to install the Volume release before installing the Service Pack release. As releases for Volume and Service Packs work independently, you can install the latest version with major bug fixes directly.


## Upgrade from trial version to license version

To upgrade from trial version,
  
* If you are using Syncfusion controls from [nuget.org](https://www.nuget.org/packages?q=syncfusion), replace the currently used trial license key with a paid license key that can be generated from the [License & Downloads](https://www.syncfusion.com/account/downloads) section of our website. Refer to [this](https://help.syncfusion.com/windowsforms/licensing/registering-license-keys) topic for more information regarding registering the license in the application.

N> Starting with 2022 Volume 1 v20.1.0.47, all Syncfusion customers (evaluators and paid customers) who use Syncfusion installers or nuget packages from [nuget.org](https://www.nuget.org/packages?q=Syncfusion) must generate and register the corresponding platform and version license key in your projects.<br>
For more information, please see [this](https://help.syncfusion.com/windowsforms/licensing/licensing) help topic.

Commit message:

IN-18012 - Single build UG content changes reverted

WindowsForms/Upgrade/Upgrade.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Major Version to Service Pack Version| Windows Forms | Syncfusion
description: this section provides the information about upgrading the Windows Forms projects from major version to service pack version
platform: WindowsForms
control: Essential Studio
documentation: ug
---

# Upgrading Syncfusion Windows Forms

Syncfusion releases new volumes once every three months, with exciting new features. There will be one Service Pack release for these volume releases. Service Pack releases are provided to address major bug fixes in the volume releases.

You can upgrade to our latest version from any installed Syncfusion version.

See our "[**Upgrade Guide**](https://help.syncfusion.com/upgrade-guide/winforms-ui-controls)" for Windows Forms to learn more about the “Breaking Changes, Bug Fixes, Features and Knows Issues” between your current version and the latest version you are trying to upgrade.


## Upgrading to the latest version

The most recent version of Syncfusion Windows Forms can be downloaded and installed by clicking on the "Latest Version: {Version}" link at the top of the Syncfusion Windows Forms Control Panel.

![Control Panel](images/upgrade-control-panel.png)

You can also upgrade to the latest version just by downloading and installing the products you require from [this](https://www.syncfusion.com/downloads/latest-version) link. The existing installed versions are not required to be uninstalled. 


It is not required to install the Volume release before installing the Service Pack release. As releases for Volume and Service Packs work independently, you can install the latest version with major bug fixes directly.


## Upgrade from trial version to license version

To upgrade from trial version, there are two possible solutions.

* Uninstall the trial version and install the fully licensed build from the [License & Downloads](https://www.syncfusion.com/account/downloads) section of our website.  
* If you are using Syncfusion controls from [nuget.org](https://www.nuget.org/packages?q=syncfusion), replace the currently used trial license key with a paid license key that can be generated from the [License & Downloads](https://www.syncfusion.com/account/downloads) section of our website. Refer to [this](https://help.syncfusion.com/windowsforms/licensing/registering-license-keys) topic for more information regarding registering the license in the application.

N> License registration is not required if you reference Syncfusion assemblies from Licensed installer. These licensing changes applicable to all evaluators who refers the Syncfusion assemblies from evaluation installer and those who use Syncfusion NuGet packages from [nuget.org](https://www.nuget.org/packages?q=syncfusion).
